Installation in windows 10

	https://medium.com/@sushantgautam_930/simple-way-to-install-cassandra-in-windows-10-6497e93989e6


Starting cassandra 

	Goto  H:\linson\PERSONAL\cassandra\apache-cassandra-3.11.8\bin

	run: cassandra

RUN cqlsh 

	Goto  H:\linson\PERSONAL\cassandra\apache-cassandra-3.11.8\bin
	run: cqlsh


-------------------
Cassandra Notes.

Reference : https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cassandra/index.htm

keypoints
		Distributed DB
		highly scalable
		manage very large amounts of structured data
		high availability with no single point of failure
		type of NoSQL
		It is scalable, fault-tolerant ( is the property that enables a system to continue operating properly in the event of the failure of (or one or more faults within) some of its components)
			and consistent(acting or done in the same way over time, especially so as to be fair or accurate.)
		It is a column-oriented database
		
Features of Cassandra
		Elastic scalability -  highly scalable; it allows to add more hardware to accommodate more customers and more data
		Always on architecture - no single point of failure, used in cases which cannot afford a failure
		Fast linear-scale performance - linearly scalable, i.e., it increases your throughput as you increase the number of nodes in the cluster. Therefore it maintains a quick response time.
		Flexible data storage - accommodates all possible data formats including: structured, semi-structured, and unstructured. It can dynamically accommodate changes to your data structures according to your need.
		Easy data distribution -  provides the flexibility to distribute data where you need by replicating data across multiple data centers
		Transaction support − Cassandra supports  ACID properties like Atomicity ( entire transaction take place at once or doesnt happen at all) , Consistency (Database must consistent before and after the transaction), Isolation(Multiple transaction can occur at the same time without interfer each other), and Durability ( changes of successful transaction occurs even the system fails ) (ACID).
		
Cassandra Architecture

	Cassandra has peer-to-peer distributed system across its nodes, and data is distributed among all the nodes in a cluster.
	All the nodes in a cluster play the same role. Each node is independent and at the same time interconnected to other nodes
	Each node in a cluster can accept read and write requests, regardless of where the data is actually located in the cluster.
	When a node goes down, read/write requests can be served from other nodes in the network.
	
	
	Components of Cassandra
		Node − It is the place where data is stored.
		Data center − It is a collection of related nodes.
		Cluster − A cluster is a component that contains one or more data centers.
		Commit log − The commit log is a crash-recovery mechanism in Cassandra. Every write operation is written to the commit log.
		Mem-table − A mem-table is a memory-resident data structure. After commit log, the data will be written to the mem-table. Sometimes, for a single-column family, there will be multiple mem-tables.
		SSTable − It is a disk file to which the data is flushed from the mem-table when its contents reach a threshold value.
		Bloom filter − These are nothing but quick, nondeterministic, algorithms for testing whether an element is a member of a set. It is a special kind of cache. Bloom filters are accessed after every query.

	

	Cassandra Query Language(CQL)
		 CQL treats the database (Keyspace) as a container of tables.
		  Programmers use cqlsh: a prompt to work with CQL or separate application language drivers
		  
		  Clients approach any of the nodes for their read-write operations. That node (coordinator) plays a proxy between the client and the nodes holding the data.
		  
		  
	Write Operations
		Every write activity of nodes is captured by the commit logs written in the nodes.
		Later the data will be captured and stored in the mem-table. 
		Whenever the mem-table is full, data will be written into the SStable data file.
		All writes are automatically partitioned and replicated throughout the cluster. 
		Cassandra periodically consolidates the SSTables, discarding unnecessary data.
	Read Operations
		During read operations, Cassandra gets values from the mem-table and checks the bloom filter to find the appropriate SSTable 
		that holds the required data.	
		
	Cassandra - Data Model
		how Cassandra stores its data.
		
		https://www.tutorialspoint.com/cassandra/cassandra_data_model.htm
		
		https://dzone.com/articles/introduction-apache-cassandras
		
		https://dzone.com/articles/introduction-nosql-apache
		
		https://medium.com/@abhiruchigupta16/cassandra-explained-from-a-beginners-perspective-bb286b4d50b2
		

	  


		
	
	
CREATE KEYSPACE tutorialspoint WITH replication = {'class':'SimpleStrategy', 'replication_factor' : 3};	
